README.md, before:

# About the Pride Flag Identification Guide

This project is attempting to address the difficulty in figuring out just *what* that pride flag was. The queer community has seen a recent explosion of flags and this site should be used as a tool to help identify some of them in the wild. It's an open source project run by Brynne Farrell. Anyone is able to add a flag or features to the website. In short, here's what this project is trying to do:

1. Collect all the (queer) pride flags possbile
1. Make high quality, automatically scalable svg versions of those flags available on Wikimedia for use across the website
1. Provide the ability to search through flags by their appearance

This project doesn't seek to decide which identities do and don't belong in queer spaces, so the flags accepted here are queer pride flags and flags that are often adjancent to queer identities; flags you might see at a pride parade. Do not use this site as an authority on which identities do and don't belong in your queer space(s). That discussion is far beyond what we can accomplish here.

# Contributing

## General Principles

The basic process for contributing to this project is:

1. Fork the repository
1. Make a branch named after the work you're doing
1. Commit and push that branch to your repository
1. Make a merge request to merge your branch into the main project's master branch

While a full explanation of using git, GitHub, or any of the technologies used in this website is beyond the scope of this document, email Brynne Farrell at brynne.farrell@gmail.com and she'll be happy to help you get started.

## Developer Setup

1. Create a new environment for the project (the folder "env" is already ignored by git, if you'd like to use the same folder)
1. Install requirements.txt
1. Run `python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:3000` to start the development environment

## Contributing New Flags

*Recommended skills: svg editing, json editing, ability to run a django website*

A side objective of this site is to not just collect flags, but make high quality svg files of the flags available for use on other places. In rare cases, it may not be possible to render a flag properly in svg, in which case alternate file types will be accepted. 

To get a flag accepted in a merge request, you'll need to:

1. Have or make an svg version of the flag that automatically scales
1. Find or create a page in Wikimedia with that file
1. Add the flag to `prideflags.json` (with the flag details as described below!) and `search/static/data/img`
1. Mage a merge request into master

### Places to Find New Flags

- Bigender: https://66.media.tumblr.com/3d86267d5d6ee6a42b9424c2aa514a6c/tumblr_inline_nwlg22va1T1snljqo_500.png?fbclid=IwAR2brjJLiNYDTfgYKWnFv_6nowHpiq2EtcTtkOion1ARfux8WQB1qPpVXKg
- Bigender: https://66.media.tumblr.com/91941b330fbbfa81a94408d1035fc1a4/tumblr_inline_nwlgbgLNlI1snljqo_500.png?fbclid=IwAR1nQ7E_cWE4TS_KHpoLTJPBYVJtUteGt84_R6O2DAyr-yd7mXNT44p20N4
- https://www.deviantart.com/pride-flags?fbclid=IwAR1etYmg5R84Reed3MT1aX4wlhjTBlJVQ2uPy-aGkDTu9O-9Nm5oE94YJ-M
- https://beyond-mogai-pride-flags.tumblr.com/?fbclid=IwAR3vsLCXQ2bwKxAuyvUt8shy3ZzxLw6L97572EtTjCTzoOskaHC56Jt-cjI
- https://pride-flags-for-us.tumblr.com/?fbclid=IwAR3ETJfoNNeMMnfa17GdhYt_Amb2zbnHfIlkZiLik8_4As0sVHDuqhxuXR8

## Contributing Flag Details

*Recommended skills: json editing, ability to run a django website*

Flag details sections need to be fleshed out with a description of the identity, name of the author, year of creation, and citations if available. For the more well-known identities Wikipedia can be a great source. However it's not always an accurate or informational source. Above all, make sure the description is how the community's members would describe themselves. 

The `prideflags.json` file uses the following keys in the `citation` key for each flag:

`text` - This is a plain text description of the identity with the target audience being people who have never heard of the identity and don't know any queer theory. It should be written in a Wikipedia-like tone and style. All information should be cited using numbered citations (like `[1]`) corresponding to the list of sources in the `sourceList` key. If there is no description, this value should be set to false.

`sourceList` - This is an ordered list of citations for the text in the `text` key. It is a list of strings that are citations in a modified APA format. Links to websites should be provided in markdown format within this citation to avoid printing a long url on the screen. The domain name, including `www` but excluding `http(s)://` should be inside the square brackets and the full url should be inside the parenthesis. If there are no sources because there is no description, this value should be set to false.

`flagImageSource` - This is a citation in the modified APA format described above. It should be a link to the source svg image. If the svg form of the image seems to be an original work done for this project, that svg image should be uploaded to Wikimedia and Wikimedia should be cited. As a result of the policy of uploading images to Wikimedia, this should never need to be false.

`firstAuthoring` - This is a citation in the modified APA format described above. It should be the first published source for the flag, as best you can determine. If this source cannot be determined, the value should be set to false.

# Development Standards

## Accessibility

Accessible web design is not taught as a routine part of formal or informal web development classes, but is absolutely vital. Building a completely and perfectly accessible site will always be a constant work in progress as technologies change, standards are revised, and screen readers interpret code in different ways. However, we want to follow the following principles as we develop:

1. A pull request *will not* be accepted if it breaks tab accessibility.
1. Custom styling of tab focus *must not* hide tab focus completely, but it can work to improve it for consistency across browsers, or improved visibility
1. Screen reader usability *must not* be worse than when the branch was started, though it *may* be left unfinished

### Accessibility Evaluation Tools

#### WAVE

[Web Accessiblity Evaluation Tool](http://wave.webaim.org/)

Available as a plugin for Chrome and Firefox. Automatically evaluates compliance with WCAG.

#### ChromeVox

[ChromeVox](http://www.chromevox.com/)

Chrome's built-in screenreader.

## Browser Compatibility

This project aims to be compatible with the latest version of the following browsers:

- Chrome
  - Desktop
  - Mobile
- Firefox
  - Desktop
  - Mobile
- Edge
  - Desktop
  
## Javascript Documentation

Follow the JSDoc standard at http://usejsdoc.org/

# Planned Features

## Accessibility Documentation

Create a document in this project to list tools for web accessibility evaluation and standards to meet. 

## Accessibility Review

Use tools to evaluate and remove barriers on this site.

## Browser Compatibility Review

Review the tool on each of the supported browsers to ensure it functions and renders properly.

## Flag Series

Some flags have undergone a number of revisions. Add a feature that somehow links the flags in a series to each other.

## Fuzzy Matching

Add the ability to automatically loosen search criteria. Someone might mis-remember a color on a flag, the number of stripes, or if it had shapes. This feature would slightly alter criteria to expand the list of possible search results. 

## Rough Sorting

Distinguish between very common flags and less common flags to help bump flags that the user was more likely to see towards the top.

Commit message:

Update README with new VS Code notes.

README.md, after:

# About the Pride Flag Identification Guide

This project is attempting to address the difficulty in figuring out just *what* that pride flag was. The queer community has seen a recent explosion of flags and this site should be used as a tool to help identify some of them in the wild. It's an open source project run by Emily Noble. Anyone is able to add a flag or features to the website. In short, here's what this project is trying to do:

1. Collect all the (queer) pride flags possbile
1. Make high quality, automatically scalable svg versions of those flags available on Wikimedia for use across the website
1. Provide the ability to search through flags by their appearance

This project doesn't seek to decide which identities do and don't belong in queer spaces, so the flags accepted here are queer pride flags and flags that are often adjancent to queer identities; flags you might see at a pride parade. Do not use this site as an authority on which identities do and don't belong in your queer space(s). That discussion is far beyond what we can accomplish here.

# Contributing

## General Principles

The basic process for contributing to this project is:

1. Fork the repository
1. Make a branch named after the work you're doing
1. Commit and push that branch to your repository
1. Make a merge request to merge your branch into the main project's master branch

While a full explanation of using git, GitHub, or any of the technologies used in this website is beyond the scope of this document, email Emily Noble at emily.c.noble@protonmail.com and xe will be happy to help you get started.

## Developer Setup (In VS Code)

1. Create a new environment for the project (the folder ".venv" is already ignored by git, if you'd like to use the same folder)
1. Install requirements.txt
1. Run the Python run configuration to start the development environment

## Contributing New Flags

*Recommended skills: svg editing, json editing, ability to run a django website*

A side objective of this site is to not just collect flags, but make high quality svg files of the flags available for use on other places. In rare cases, it may not be possible to render a flag properly in svg, in which case alternate file types will be accepted. 

To get a flag accepted in a merge request, you'll need to:

1. Have or make an svg version of the flag that automatically scales
1. Find or create a page in Wikimedia with that file
1. Add the flag to `prideflags.json` (with the flag details as described below!) and `search/static/data/img`
1. Mage a merge request into master

### Places to Find New Flags

- Bigender: https://66.media.tumblr.com/3d86267d5d6ee6a42b9424c2aa514a6c/tumblr_inline_nwlg22va1T1snljqo_500.png?fbclid=IwAR2brjJLiNYDTfgYKWnFv_6nowHpiq2EtcTtkOion1ARfux8WQB1qPpVXKg
- Bigender: https://66.media.tumblr.com/91941b330fbbfa81a94408d1035fc1a4/tumblr_inline_nwlgbgLNlI1snljqo_500.png?fbclid=IwAR1nQ7E_cWE4TS_KHpoLTJPBYVJtUteGt84_R6O2DAyr-yd7mXNT44p20N4
- https://www.deviantart.com/pride-flags?fbclid=IwAR1etYmg5R84Reed3MT1aX4wlhjTBlJVQ2uPy-aGkDTu9O-9Nm5oE94YJ-M
- https://beyond-mogai-pride-flags.tumblr.com/?fbclid=IwAR3vsLCXQ2bwKxAuyvUt8shy3ZzxLw6L97572EtTjCTzoOskaHC56Jt-cjI
- https://pride-flags-for-us.tumblr.com/?fbclid=IwAR3ETJfoNNeMMnfa17GdhYt_Amb2zbnHfIlkZiLik8_4As0sVHDuqhxuXR8

## Contributing Flag Details

*Recommended skills: json editing, ability to run a django website*

Flag details sections need to be fleshed out with a description of the identity, name of the author, year of creation, and citations if available. For the more well-known identities Wikipedia can be a great source. However it's not always an accurate or informational source. Above all, make sure the description is how the community's members would describe themselves. 

The `prideflags.json` file uses the following keys in the `citation` key for each flag:

`text` - This is a plain text description of the identity with the target audience being people who have never heard of the identity and don't know any queer theory. It should be written in a Wikipedia-like tone and style. All information should be cited using numbered citations (like `[1]`) corresponding to the list of sources in the `sourceList` key. If there is no description, this value should be set to false.

`sourceList` - This is an ordered list of citations for the text in the `text` key. It is a list of strings that are citations in a modified APA format. Links to websites should be provided in markdown format within this citation to avoid printing a long url on the screen. The domain name, including `www` but excluding `http(s)://` should be inside the square brackets and the full url should be inside the parenthesis. If there are no sources because there is no description, this value should be set to false.

`flagImageSource` - This is a citation in the modified APA format described above. It should be a link to the source svg image. If the svg form of the image seems to be an original work done for this project, that svg image should be uploaded to Wikimedia and Wikimedia should be cited. As a result of the policy of uploading images to Wikimedia, this should never need to be false.

`firstAuthoring` - This is a citation in the modified APA format described above. It should be the first published source for the flag, as best you can determine. If this source cannot be determined, the value should be set to false.

# Development Standards

## Accessibility

Accessible web design is not taught as a routine part of formal or informal web development classes, but is absolutely vital. Building a completely and perfectly accessible site will always be a constant work in progress as technologies change, standards are revised, and screen readers interpret code in different ways. However, we want to follow the following principles as we develop:

1. A pull request *will not* be accepted if it breaks tab accessibility.
1. Custom styling of tab focus *must not* hide tab focus completely, but it can work to improve it for consistency across browsers, or improved visibility
1. Screen reader usability *must not* be worse than when the branch was started, though it *may* be left unfinished

### Accessibility Evaluation Tools

#### WAVE

[Web Accessiblity Evaluation Tool](http://wave.webaim.org/)

Available as a plugin for Chrome and Firefox. Automatically evaluates compliance with WCAG.

#### ChromeVox

[ChromeVox](http://www.chromevox.com/)

Chrome's built-in screenreader.

## Browser Compatibility

This project aims to be compatible with the latest version of the following browsers:

- Chrome
  - Desktop
  - Mobile
- Firefox
  - Desktop
  - Mobile
- Edge
  - Desktop
  
## Javascript Documentation

Follow the JSDoc standard at http://usejsdoc.org/

# Planned Features

## Accessibility Documentation

Create a document in this project to list tools for web accessibility evaluation and standards to meet. 

## Accessibility Review

Use tools to evaluate and remove barriers on this site.

## Browser Compatibility Review

Review the tool on each of the supported browsers to ensure it functions and renders properly.

## Flag Series

Some flags have undergone a number of revisions. Add a feature that somehow links the flags in a series to each other.

## Fuzzy Matching

Add the ability to automatically loosen search criteria. Someone might mis-remember a color on a flag, the number of stripes, or if it had shapes. This feature would slightly alter criteria to expand the list of possible search results. 

## Rough Sorting

Distinguish between very common flags and less common flags to help bump flags that the user was more likely to see towards the top.
